From VOA Learning English, this is the Economics Report.
这里是美国之音慢速英语经济报道。

The Brazilian government says it invested billions of dollars to prepare for the 2014 World Cup. The money has been spent on infrastructure like roads and stadiums for World Cup events. It also has paid for security and social projects. The government says these investments will result in long-term gains for Brazil, but independent experts say effects of the spending are mixed.
巴西政府表示它投资了数十亿美元筹办2014年世界杯。这些资金花费在世界杯赛事服务的道路和体育场等基础设施上。巴西政府还为安保和社会项目提供了资金。巴西政府表示，这些投资将使巴西长期受益，但独立专家表示，这些支出的影响各异。

Urban planners say the $11 billion spent on stadiums and infrastructure has created jobs for poor Brazilians, but they say this development has a price. The public works have driven up the cost of housing. This, say some experts, has push poor people further away from jobs and public services.
城市规划者表示，花在体育场和基础设施上的110亿美元给巴西穷人创造了就业岗位，但他们表示，这种发展付出了代价。公共工程抬高了住房成本。一些专家说，这已经推动穷人进一步远离就业机会和公共服务。

Some people are questioning the value of Police Pacification Units, called the UPP in Portuguese. Officials have sent the special police forces to drive out drug traffickers and other criminals. But the results have been mixed, says Chris Gaffney. He teaches at Fluminense University in Rio de Janeiro.
有人质疑社区维和警察（Police Pacification Units），它的葡文缩写是UPP（葡萄牙语全称：Unidade de Polícia Pacificadora）。官方已经派出这支特别警力赶走毒贩和其他犯罪分子。但克里斯·加夫尼(Chris Gaffney)说，结果喜忧参半。加夫尼在里约热内卢市的弗鲁米嫩塞大学任教。

Professor Gaffney says the drug traffickers just move their operations to other favelas. But he adds that the UPP have brought some order to once lawless neighborhoods.
加夫尼教授说，毒贩只是将他们的运作转移到了其它贫民区。但他补充说，社区维和警察给曾经的不法街区带来了一些秩序。

"These places were closed in many respects to the formal market. But the UPP goes in [to the favela] and it removes the barrier of the drug traffickers and allows all kinds of market forces to flow through it," explained Gaffney.
加夫尼解释说，“这些地方在很多方面对正规市场关闭了。但是社区维和警察进驻贫民窟，消除了毒贩的障碍，并允许各种市场力量流入贫民窟。”

He says these forces have opened some areas to tourism or state-support projects or businesses. The organizing body of the World Cup, FIFA, also invested in social programs. 
他说这些警力把一些地区开放给了旅游业或国家支持的项目或商业。世界杯主办机构国际足联也在社会项目上有所投资。

Lisa Delpy Neirotti is with Georgetown University in Washington D.C. She says the investments have led to programs for educating young people about the environment, the disease AIDS, or the importance of staying in school. She says FIFA pressure the Brazilian government to accept some pro-environmental measures like treating and reusing waster at stadiums. 
莉萨·德尔匹·尼罗蒂（Lisa Delpy Neirotti）就职于华盛顿的乔治敦大学。她说这些投资促成的项目在环境、艾滋病或上学重要性方面教育了年轻人。她说，国际足联迫使巴西政府接受了一些有利于环境的措施，如在体育场馆处理和再利用水资源。

FIFA also wanted the structures built for the World Cup to meet the guidelines of LEED, or Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design. The U.S. Green Building Council set up the LEED Certification Program to recognize best in class building policies.
国际足联还希望为世界杯建造的建筑满足能源与环境设计先导（简称LEED）的准则要求。美国绿建筑学会建立了LEED认证程序来认证建筑政策的同类最佳。

Brazil's government says the World Cup will add billions of dollars to the economy, but many Brazilians believe the money will go to only a few people.
巴西政府表示，世界杯将给巴西经济注入数十亿美元，但许多巴西人认为这些钱只会流向极少数人。

Critics note some cities in Europe have rejected proposals to hold huge sporting events. They say a new models is needed if nations organizing such activities are to avoid protests like those earlier in Brazil.
评论人士注意到一些欧洲城市已经拒绝了举办大型体育赛事的提议。他们表示，如果国家举办这样的活动想要避免类似早前在巴西发生的这些抗议，就得有一种新的模式。

And that's the Economics Report. I'm Mario Ritter.
以上就是本期经济报道的全部内容。我是马里奥·理特（Mario Ritter）。